All right. Welcome to lesson seven, the penultimate lesson of practical deep learning for code
as part one. And today we're going to be digging into what's inside a neural net. We've already
seen what's inside a kind of the most basic possible neural net, which is a sandwich of
fully connected layers or linear layers and and values. And so we built that from scratch.
But there's a lot of tweaks that we can do. And so most of the tweaks actually that we probably
care about are the tweaking the very first layer or the very last layer. So that's where we'll
focus. But over the next couple of weeks, we'll look at some of the tricks we can do inside as
well. So I'm going to do this through the lens of the the patty rice patty competition we've been
talking about. And we got to a point where, let's have a look. So we created a conf next model. We
tried a few different types of basic pre processing. We added test time augmentation. And then we
scaled that up to larger images and rectangular images. And that got us into the top 25% of the
competition. So that's part two of the so called road to the top series, which is increasingly
misnamed since we've been presenting these notebooks. More and more of our students have been
passing me on the leaderboard. So currently, first and second place are both people from this class,
Korean and Nick. Go to hell. You're in my target. And leave my class immediately. And congratulations.
Good luck to you. So in part three, I'm going to show you a really interesting trick, a very simple
trick for scaling up these models further. What you'll discover if you've tried to use larger models,
so you can replace the words more with the word large in those architectures and try to train a
larger model. A larger model has more parameters. More parameters means they can find more tricky
little features and broadly speaking models with more parameters, therefore ought to be more accurate.
The problem is that those activations, or more specifically, the gradients that have to be calculated,
choose up memory on your GPU. And your GPU is not as clever as your CPU at kind of sticking stuff.
It doesn't need right now into virtual memory on the hard drive. When it runs out of memory, it runs
out of memory. And it also doesn't do such a good job as your CPU at kind of shuffling things around
to try and find memory. It just allocates blocks of memory and stays allocated until you remove them.
So if you try to scale up your models to bigger models, unless you have
very expensive GPUs, you will run out of space. And you'll get an error. Something like CUDA out
of memory error. So if that happens, first thing I mentioned is it's not a bad idea to restart your
notebook because they can be a bit tricky to recover from otherwise. And then I'll show you how you
can use as large a model as you like. Almost, you know, basically you'll be able to use an
x large model on Kaggle. So let me explain.
Now, I want to, when you run something on Kaggle, like actually on Kaggle, you're generally going
to be on a 16 gig GPU. And you don't have to run stuff on Kaggle. You can run stuff on your home
computer or paper space or whatever. But sometimes you're, if you want to do Kaggle competition,
sometimes you have to run stuff on Kaggle because a lot of competitions are what they call code
competitions, which is where the only way to submit is from a notebook that you're running on Kaggle.
And then a second reason to run stuff on Kaggle is that, you know, your notebooks will appear,
you know, with the leaderboard score on them. And so people can see which which notebooks are
actually good. And I kind of like, even in things that aren't code competitions, I love trying to
be the person who's number one on the notebook score leaderboard, because that's something which,
you know, you can't just work it in video and use 1000 GPUs and win a competition through
a combination of skill and brute force. Everybody has the same nine hour timeout to work with.
So I think it's a good way of keeping the things a bit more fair. Now, so my home
GPU has 24 gig. So I wanted to find out, what can I get away with, you know, in 16 gig? And the way
I did that is I think a useful thing to discuss because again, it's all about fast iteration.
So I wanted to really quickly find out how much memory will a model use.
So there's a really quick hacky way I can do that, which is to say, okay, for the training set,
let's not use. So here's the value counts of labels. So the number of each disease.
Let's not look at all the diseases. Let's just pick one, the smallest one, right?
And let's make that our training set. Our training set is the bacterial
counter core blade images. And now I can train a model with just 337 images without changing
anything else. Not that I care about that model, but then I can see how much memory it used.
It's important to realize that, you know, each image you pass through with the same size,
each batch size is the same size. So training for longer won't use more memory.
So that'll tell us how much memory we're going to need.
So what I then did was I then tried training different models to see how much memory
they used up. Now, what happens if we train a model, so obviously, ConfNEX small doesn't use
too much memory. So here's something that reports the amount of GPU memory just by basically printing
out CUDA's GPU processes. And you can see ConfNEX small took up for gig.
And also, this might be interesting to you. If you then call Python's garbage collection,
gc.collect, and then call PyTorch's empty cache, that should basically get your GPU back to a
clean state of not using any more memory than it needs to when you can start training the next
model without restarting the kernel. So what would happen if we tried to train this little model
and it crashed with a CUDA out of memory error? What do we do? We can use a call little trick
called gradient accumulation. What's gradient accumulation? So what's gradient accumulation?
Well, I added this parameter to my train method here. That's my train method.
Creates by data loaders, creates my learner, and then depending on whether I'm fine tuning or not,
either fits or fine tunes it. But there's one other thing it does. It does this gradient
accumulation thing. What's that about? Well, the key step is here. I set my batch size. So that's
the number of images that I pass through to the GPU all at once. To 64, which is my default,
divided by slash, slash means integer divide in Python, divided by this number. So if I pass two,
it's going to use a batch size of 32. If I pass four, it'll use a batch size of 16.
Now that obviously should let me cure any memory problems, use a smaller batch size.
But the problem is that now the dynamics of my training are different, right? The smaller your
batch size, the more volatility there is from batch to batch. So now you're learning rates,
you're all messed up. You don't want to be messing around with trying to find a different set of
kind of optimal parameters for every batch size, for every architecture. So what we want to do is
find a way to run just, let's say, accumus two, accumulat equals two. Let's say we just want to
run 62 images at a time through. How do we make it behave as if it was 64 images? Well, the solution
to that problem is to consider our training loop. This is basically the training loop we
used from a couple of lessons ago, the one we created manually. We go through each xy pair in
the data loader. We calculate the loss using some coefficients based on that xy pair. And then we
call backward on that loss to calculate the gradients. And then we subtract from the coefficients,
the gradients times the learning rate. And then we zero out the gradients. So I've skipped a bit
of stuff like the with torch.no grad thing. Actually, no, I don't need that because I've got data.
No, that's it. That should all work fine. I skipped out printing the loss. That's about it.
So here is a variation of that loop where I do not always subtract the gradient times the learning
rate. Instead, I go through each xy pair in the data loader. I calculate the loss. I look at
how many images are in this batch. So initially, I start at zero and this count is going to be 32,
say, if I've divided the batch size by two. And then if count is greater than 64, I do my
gradient up my coefficients update. Well, it's not. So I skip back to here.
And I do this again. And if you remember, there was this interesting subtlety in pie torch,
which is if you call backward again, without zeroing out the gradients,
then it adds this set of gradients to the old gradients. So by doing these two half size batches,
without zeroing out the gradients between them, it's adding them up. So I'm going to end up with
the total gradient of a 64 image batch size, but passing only 32 at a time. If I used accumulate
equals four, it would go through this four times adding them up before it subtracted out the
coefficients dot grad times learning rate and zeroed it out. If I put in a queue equals 64,
it would go through into a single image one at a time. And after 64 passes through,
eventually count would be greater than 64. And we'll do the update. So that's gradient accumulation.
It's a very simple idea, right, which is that you don't have to actually update your weights
every loop through for every mini batch. You can just do it from time to time.
But it has quite significant implications, which I find most people seem not to realize,
which is if you look on like Twitter or Reddit or whatever, people can say,
oh, I need to buy a bigger GPU to train bigger models, but they don't. They could just use
gradient accumulation. And so given the huge price differential between, say, a RTX 3080 and an
RTX 3090 Ti, huge price differential, the performance is not that different. The big difference is the
memory. So what? Just put in a bit smaller batch size and do gradient accumulation. So there's actually
not that much reason to buy giant GPUs. John.
Other results with gradient accumulation numerically identical?
They're numerically identical for this particular architecture. There is something called batch
normalization, which we will look at in part two of the course, which keeps track of the moving
average of data deviations and averages. And does it in a mathematically slightly incorrect way,
as a result of which, if you've got batch normalization, then it could, it basically will
introduce more volatility, which is not necessarily a bad thing. But because it's not mathematically
identical, you won't necessarily get the same results. Conf next doesn't use batch normalization,
so it is the same. And in fact, a lot of the models people want to use really big versions of,
which is NLP ones, transformers, tend not to use batch normalization, but instead they use
something called layer normalization, which, yeah, doesn't have the same issue. I think that's
probably fair to say. I haven't thought about it that deeply. In practice, I found adding
gradient accumulation for Conf next has not caused any issues for me. I don't have to change any
parameters when I do it. Any other questions on the forum, John?
Am I asking, shouldn't it be count greater than or equal to 64? I don't think so. So we started at
zero, then it's going to be 32. Yeah, yeah. You could probably tell I didn't actually run this
code. I just, Madar was asking, does this mean that L.R. Find is based on the batch size set
during the data block? Yeah, so L.R. Find just uses your data loaders batch size.
Edward is asking, why do we need gradient accumulation rather than just using a smaller batch size
and follows up with how would we pick a good batch size? Well, just if you use a smaller batch size,
here's the thing, right? Different architectures have different amounts of memory, which they take up.
And so you'll end up with different batch sizes for different architectures,
which is not necessarily a bad thing, but each of them is going to then need a different learning
rate and maybe even different weight decay or whatever. Like the kind of the settings that's
working really well for batch size 64 won't necessarily work really well for batch size 32.
And you want to be able to experiment as easily and quickly as possible.
I think the second part of your question was, how do you pick an optimal batch size? Honestly,
the standard approach is to pick the largest one you can, just because it's faster that way,
you're getting more parallel processing going on. Although, to be honest, I quite often use batch
sizes that are quite a bit smaller than I need, because quite often it doesn't make that much
difference. But yeah, the rule of thumb would be, you know, pick a batch size that fits in your GPU.
And for performance reasons, I think it's generally a good idea to have a BMOF pollinate.
Everybody seems to always use powers of two. I don't know. I don't think it actually matters.
And look, there's one other, just a clarification or a check if the learning rate should be scaled
according to the batch size. Yeah, so generally speaking, the rule of thumb is that if you divide
the batch size by two, you divide the learning rate by two, but unfortunately it's not quite
perfect. Did you have a question? Nick, if you do, you can. Okay, cool. Yeah.
Yeah. No, that's all caught up. Thanks, Jeremy. Good questions. Thank you.
So, gradient accumulation in fast AI is very straightforward. You just divide the batch size by
however much you would have divided it by. And then add a, you get something called a callback.
And a callback is something which changes the way the model trains.
This callback is called gradient accumulation. And you pass in the effective batch size you want.
And then you say, when you create the learner, you say these are the callbacks I want. And so it's
going to pass in gradient accumulation callbacks. So it's going to only update the weights once it's
got 64 images. So if we pass in a chemicals one, it won't do any gradient accumulation.
And that uses four gig. If we use a Q equals two, about three gig.
Q equals four, about two and a half gig. And generally, the bigger the model, the closer you'll
get to a kind of a linear scaling, because models have a kind of a bit of overhead that they have
anyway. So what I then did was I just went through all the different models I wanted to try. So I
wanted to try Comfnext large at 320 by 240, VIT large, Swin V2 large, Swin large. And on each of
these, I just tried running it with a Q equals one. And actually, every single time for all of these,
I got a amount of memory error. And then I tried each of them independently with a Q equals two.
And it turns out that all of these worked with a Q equals two. And it only taught me 12 seconds
each time. So that was a very quick thing for me then. Okay. I now know how to train all of these
models on a 16 gigabyte card. So I can check here. They all in less than 16 gig.
So then I just created a little dictionary of all the architectures I wanted. And for each
architecture, all of the resize methods I wanted and final sizes I wanted.
So that was good. Now, these models, VIT, Swin V2 and Swin are all transformers models,
which means that well, most transformers models nearly all of them have a fixed size.
This one's 224. This one's 192. This one's 224. So I have to make sure that my final size is a
square of the size required, otherwise I get an error. There is a way of working around
this, but I haven't experimented with it enough to know when it works well and when it doesn't,
so we'll probably come back to that in part two. So for now we're just going to use the
size that they ask us to use. So with this dictionary of architectures and for each architecture
kind of pre processing details, we switch the training path back to using all of our images
and then we can loop through each architecture and loop through each item transforms and
sizes and train the model. And then the training script, if you're fine tuning,
returns the TTA predictions. So I append all those TTA predictions for each model for each
type into a list. And after each one, it's a good idea to do this garbage collection and empty
cache. Otherwise I find what happens is your GPU memory kind of, I don't know, I think
it gets fragmented or something. And after a while it runs out of memory even when you
thought it wouldn't. So this way you can really do as much as you like without running out
of memory. So they will train, train, train, train. And one key thing to note here is that
in my train script, my data loaders does not have the seed equals parameter. So I'm using
a different training set every time. So that means that for each of these different runs,
they're using also different validation sets. So they're not directly comparable. But you
can kind of see they're all doing pretty well, 2.1%, 2.3%, 1.7% and so forth. So why am I using
different training and validation sets for each of these? That's because I want to ensemble
them. So I'm going to use bagging, which is I am going to take the average of their
predictions. Now, I mean, really, when we talked about random forest bagging, we were
taking the average of like intentionally weak models. These are not intentionally weak models.
They're going to be good models, but they're all different. They're using different architectures
and different pre processing approaches. And so in general, we would hope that these different
approaches, some might work well for some images and some might work well for other images.
And so when we average them out, hopefully we'll get a good blend of kind of different
ideas, which is kind of what you want in bagging. So we can stack up that list of different,
all the different probabilities and take their main. And so that's going to give us 3,469
predictions. That's our test set size. And each one has 10 probabilities, the probability
of each disease. And so then we can use argmax to find which probability index is the highest.
So that's going to give us our list of indexes. So this is basically the same steps as we used
before to create our CSV submission file. So at the time of creating this analysis, that
got me to the top of the leaderboard. And in fact, these are my four submissions. And
you can see each one got better. Now you're not always going to get this nice monotonic
improvement, right? But you want to be trying to submit something every day to kind of like
try out something new, right? And the more you practice, the more you'll get a good intuition
of what's going to help, right? So partly I'm showing you this to say it's not like purely
random as to whether things work or don't. Once you've been doing this for a while, you
know, you've rolled generally be improving things most of the time. So as you can see
from the descriptions, my first submission was our conf next small, the 12 epochs with
TTA. And then a ensemble of conf next. So it's basically this exact same thing, but just
retraining a few with different training subsets. And then this is the same thing again. This
is the thing we just saw, basically, the the sample of large bottles with TTA. And then
the last one was something I skipped over, which was I, the the VIT models were the best
in my testing. So I basically weighted them as double in the ensemble. I'm pretty unscientific,
but again, it gave it a another boost. And so that was that was it. All right, John.
Yes, thanks, Jeremy. So no particular order, Korean is asking would trying out cross validation
with K folds with the same architecture makes sense to do an assembling of models. Yeah,
so a popular thing is to do K fold cross validation. So K fold cross validation is something very,
very similar to what I've done here. So what I've done here is I've trained a bunch of models
with different training sets. Each one is a different random 80% of the data. Five fold cross
validation does something similar. But what it says is rather than picking, like say, five
samples out with different random subsets. In fact, instead, first, like, do all except for the
first 20% of the data, and then all but the second 20% and then all but the third and so forth.
And so you end up with five subsets, each of which have non overlapping validation sets. And then
you'll assemble those. You know, in a theory, maybe that could be slightly better because you're
kind of guaranteed that every row is appears four times, you know, effectively. It also has a benefit
that you could average those five validation sets, because there's no kind of overlap between them
to get a cross validation. Personally, I generally don't bother. And the reason I don't is because
this way, I can add and remove models very easily. I don't, you know, I can just, you know, add
another architecture and whatever to my ensemble without trying to find a different overlapping
non overlapping subset. So, yeah, cross validation is therefore something that I use probably less
than most people, or almost, or almost never. Awesome. Thank you. Are there any just going back
to gradient accumulation, any other kind of drawbacks or potential gotchas with gradient
accumulation? No, not really. Yeah, like, amazingly, it doesn't even really slow things down much,
you know, going from a batch size of 64 to a batch size of 32. By definition, you had to do it
because you're GP useful. So you're obviously giving a lot of data. So it's probably going to be
using its processing speed pretty effectively. So yeah, no, it's just, it's just a good technique
that we should all be buying cheaper graphics cards with less memory in them and using, you know,
have, like, I don't know the prices, I suspect, like, you could probably buy like two 30 eighties
for the price of one 30 90 TI or something. That would be a very good deal.
Yes, clearly you're not on the Nvidia payroll. So look, this is a good segue then. We did have
a question about sort of GPU recommendations, and there's been a bit of chat on that as well.
So any, any, you know, commentary, any additional commentary around GPU recommendations?
No, not really. I mean, obviously at the moment, Nvidia is the only game in town. You know,
if you buy, if you try to use a, you know, Apple M one or M two or an AMD card, you're basically
in for a world of pain in terms of compatibility and stuff and unoptimized libraries and whatever.
The, the Nvidia consumer cards, so the ones that start with RTX are much cheaper,
but are just as good as the expensive enterprise cards. So you might be wondering why anybody
would buy the expensive enterprise cards. And the reason is that there's a licensing issue that
Nvidia will not allow you to use an RTX consumer card in a data center, which is also why
cloud computing is more expensive than they're kind of ought to be because everybody selling
cloud computing GPUs is selling these cards that are like, I can't remember, I think they're like
three times more expensive for kind of the same features. So yeah, if you do get serious about
deep learning to the point that you're prepared to invest, you know, a few days in administering a
box and, you know, I guess depending on your prices, hopefully we'll start to come down,
but currently a thousand or $2,000 or $2,000 and buying a GPU, then, you know, that'll probably
pay you back pretty quickly. Great. Thank you. Let's see. Some other ones come in.
If you have a back on models, not hardware, if you have a well functioning but large model,
can it make sense to train a smaller model to produce the same final activations as the larger
model? Oh, yeah, absolutely. I'm not sure we'll get into that this time around, but
yeah, we'll cover that in part two, I think, but yeah, basically, there's a kind of teacher
student models and model distillation, which broadly speaking, there are ways to
make inference faster by trainings more models that work the same way as large models.
Great. Thank you. All clear. All right. So
that is the actual real end of road to the top because beyond that, we don't actually cover how
to get closer to the top. You'd have to ask Curie and to share his techniques to find out that,
or Nick, to get the second place to the top. Part four is actually
something that I think is very useful to know about for learning, and it's got to teach us a whole
lot about how the last layer of a neural networks. And specifically, what we're going to try to do
is we're going to try to build a model that doesn't just predict the disease,
but also predict the type of race. So how would you do that? So here's the data loader we're going to
try to build. It's going to be something that for each image, it tells us the disease and the type
of race. I say disease, sometimes normal, I guess some of them are not diseased.
So to build a model that can predict two things, the first thing is going to need data
loaders that have two dependent variables. And that is shockingly easy to do in Fast.ai.
Thanks to the data block. So we've seen the data block before. We haven't been using it for the
patty competition so far because we haven't needed it. We could just use image data loader from folder.
So that's like the highest level API, the simplest API. If we go down a level deeper into the data
block, we have a lot more flexibility. So if you've been following the walkthroughs, you'll know that
as I built this, the first thing I actually did was to simply replicate the previous notebook,
but replace the image data loader from folders with a data block to try to do, first of all,
exactly the same thing. And then I added the second dependent variable. So if we look at the previous
image data loader from folders thingy, here it is, we were passing in some item transforms
and some batch transforms. And we had something saying what percentage should be the validation set.
So in a data block, if you remember, we have to pass in a blocks argument saying what kind of data is
the independent variable and what is the dependent variable. So to replicate what we had before,
we would just pass in image block, category block, because we've got an image as our independent variable
and a category, one type of rice is the dependent variable. So the new thing I'm going to show you
here is that you don't have to when you put in two things, you can put in as many as you like.
So if you put in three things, we're going to generate one image and two categories.
Now, first AI, if you're saying I want three things, first AI doesn't know which of those
is the independent variable and which is the dependent variable. So the next thing you have
to tell it is how many inputs are there, number of inputs. And so here I've said there's one input.
So that means this is the input and therefore by definition, two categories will be the output.
Because remember, we're trying to predict two things, the type of rice and the disease.
Okay, this is the same as what we've seen before to find out to get our list of items we'll call
get image files. Now here's something we haven't seen before. Get why is our labeling function.
Normally, we pass to get why a single thing such as the parent label function,
which looks at the name of the parent directory, which remember is how these images are structured.
And that would tell us the label. But get why can also take an array. And in this case,
we want two different labels. One is the name of the parent directory, because that's the disease.
The second is the variety. So what's get variety? Get variety is a function.
So let me explain how this function works. So we can create a data frame containing our training
data that came from Kaggle. So for each image, it tells us the disease and the variety.
And what I did is something I haven't shown before. In pandas, you can set one column to be the index.
And when you do that, in this case image ID, it makes this series, this sorry, the data frame
kind of like a dictionary. I can index into it by saying, tell me the row for this image.
And to do that, you use the lock attribute, the location. So we want in the data frame
the location of this image. And then you can also say optionally what column you want,
this column. And so here's this image. And here's this column. And as you can see, it returns that thing.
So hopefully now you can see it's pretty easy for us to create a function that takes
a row, sorry, a path and returns the location and the data frame of the name of that file,
because remember, these are the names of files for the variety column.
So that's our second gateway. Okay. And then we've seen this before randomly split the data into the
20% and 80%. And so we could just squish them all to 192 just for this example.
And then use data augmentation to get us down to 128 square images just for this example.
And so that's what we get when we say show batch, we get what we just discussed.
So now we need a model that predicts two things. How do we create a model that predicts two things?
Well, the key thing to realize is we never actually had a model that predicts two things.
We had a model that predicts 10 things before. The 10 things we predicted is the probability of each
disease. So we don't actually now want a model that predicts two things. We want a model that
predicts 20 things, the probability of each of the 10 diseases and the probability of each of the
10 varieties. So how could we do that? Well, let's first of all try to just create the same disease
model we had before with our new data loader. And so this is going to be reasonably straightforward.
The key thing to know is that since we told FastAI that there's one input and therefore by definition
there's two outputs, it's going to pass to our metrics and to our loss functions, three things
instead of two, the predictions from the model and the disease and the variety. So we can't just
use error rate as our metric anymore because error rate takes two things. Instead, we have to create
a function that takes three things and return error rate on the two things we want, which is the
predictions from the model and the disease. So predictions from the model, this is the target.
So that's actually all we need to do to define a metric that's going to work with our new
dataset with a new data loader. This is not going to actually tell us anything about variety. First,
it is going to try to replicate something that can do just disease. So when we create our learner,
we'll pass in this new disease error function. Okay, so we're halfway there. The other thing
we're going to need is to change our loss function. Now we never actually talked about what loss
function to use. And that's because vision learner guessed what loss function to use.
Vision learner saw that our dependent variable is a single category and it knows the best loss
function that's probably going to be the case for things with a single category. And it knows
how big the category is. So it just didn't bother us at all. Just said, okay, I'll figure it out for
you. So the only time we've provided our own loss function is when we were kind of doing
linear models and neural nets from scratch. And we did, I think, mean squared error. We might also
have done mean absolute error. Neither of those work when the dependent variable is a category.
Now, how would you use mean squared error or mean absolute error to say how close were these 10
probability predictions to this one correct answer? So in this case, we have to use a different
loss function. We have to use something called cross entropy loss. And this is actually the
loss function that fast AI picked for us before without us knowing. But now that we are having
to pick it out manually, I'm going to explain to you exactly what cross entropy loss does. Okay.
And you know, these details are very important indeed. Like, remember, I said at the start of this
class, the stuff that happens in the middle of the model, you're not going to have to care about
much in your life, if ever. But the stuff that happens in the first layer and the last layer,
including the loss function that sits between the last layer and the loss, you're going to have
to care about a lot. This stuff comes up all the time. So you definitely want to know about
cross entropy loss. And so I'm going to explain it using a spreadsheet.
And this spreadsheet is in the course repo. And so let's say you were predicting something like a
kind of a mini image net thing where you're trying to predict whether something an image is a cat,
a dog, a plane, a fish, or a building. So you set up some model, whatever it is, a comf, next model,
or just a big bunch of linear layers connected up or whatever. And initially, you've got some
random weights. And it spits out at the end. Five predictions. Right. So remember to predict
something with five categories, your model will spit out five probabilities. Now it doesn't
initially spit out probabilities. There's nothing making them probabilities. It just spits out
five numbers. Could be negative, could be positive. Okay. So here's the output of the model.
So what we want to do is we want to convert these into probabilities.
And so we do that in two steps. The first thing we do is we go
X, that's e to the power of, we go e to the power of each of those things.
Like so. Okay. And so here's the mathematical formula we're using. This is called the softmax
that we're working through. We're going to go through each of the categories. So these are our
five categories. So here K is five. We've got to go through each of our categories. And we're
going to go e to the power of the output. So ZJ is the output for the Jth category. So here's that.
And then we're going to sum them all together. Here it is. Sum up together. Okay. So this is the
denominator. And then the numerator is just e to the power of the thing we care about. So this
row. So the numerator is e to the power of cat on this row.
So e to the power of dog on this row. And so forth. Now if you think about it,
since the denominator adds up all the e to the power ofs, then when we do each one divided by
the sum, that means the sum of these will equal one by definition. Right. And so now we have
things that can be treated as probabilities. They're all numbers between zero and one. Numbers that
were bigger in the output will be bigger here. But there's something else interesting, which is
because we did e to the power of. It means that the bigger numbers will be like pushed up to numbers
closer to one, like we're saying like, Oh, really try to pick one thing as having most of the
probability because we are trying to predict, you know, one thing we're trying to predict,
which one is it? And so this is called softmax. So sometimes you'll see people complaining about
the fact that their model, which they said, let's say, is it a teddy bear or a grizzly bear or a
black bear? And they feed it a picture of the cat. And they say, Oh, the model's wrong because
it predicted grizzly bear. It's not a grizzly bear. As you can see, there's no way for this to predict
anything other than the categories we're giving it. We're forcing it to that. Now we don't, if you
want that like there's something else you could do, which is you could actually have them not add
up to one. Right. You could instead have something which simply says what's the probability it's a
cat, what's probably it's a dog was probably played totally separately. And they could add up to
less than one. And in that situation, you can say, you know, or more than one, which case you could
have like more than one thing being true, or zero things being true. But in this particular case,
where we want to predict one and one thing only, we use softmax. The first part of the cross entropy
formula, the first part of the cross entry formula, in fact, let's look it up and end across
entropy loss. The first part of what cross entropy loss in PyTorch does
is to calculate the softmax. It's actually the log of the softmax, but don't worry about that too
much. It's just a slightly faster to do the log. Okay, so now for each one of our five things,
we've got a probability. The next step is the actual cross entropy calculation,
which is we take our five things, we've got our five probabilities, and then we've got our actuals.
Now, the truth is the actual, you know, the five things would have indices, right?
0, 1, 2, 3, or 4, and the actual turned out to be the number one. But what we tend to do is we
think of it as being one hot encoded, which is we put a 1 next to the thing for which it's true,
and a 0 everywhere else. And so now we can compare these five numbers to these five numbers,
and we would expect to have a smaller loss if the softmax was high, where the actual is high.
And so here's how we calculate, this is the formula, the cross entropy loss.
We sum up, they switch to M this time, for some reason, but the same thing, we sum up across the
five categories, so M is 5. And for each one, we multiply the actual target value, so that's 0,
so here it is here, the actual target value. And we multiply that by the log of the predicted
probability, the log of red, the predicted probability. And so, of course, for four of these,
that value is 0. Because here, yj equals 0, by definition, for all but one of them, because it's
one hot encoded. So for the one that it's not, we've got our actual times the log softmax.
Okay, and so now actually you can see why PyTorch prefers to use log softmax, because that it kind
of skips over having to do this log at all. So this equation looks slightly frightening,
but when you think about it, all it's actually doing is it's finding the probability for the
one that is one and taking its log, right? It's kind of weird doing it as a sum, but in math,
it could be a little bit tricky to kind of say, oh, look, this up in an array, which is basically
all it's doing. But yeah, basically, at least in this case, for a single result with softmax,
this is all it's doing is it's finding the 0.87 where it's one four and taking the log,
and then finally negative. So that is what cross entropy loss does.
We add that together for every row. So here's what it looks like if we add it together over every row,
right? So n is the number of rows. And here's a special case. This is called binary cross entropy.
What happens if we're not predicting which of five things it is, but we're just predicting
is it a catch? So in that case, if you look at this approach, you end up with this formula,
which it's it's this is identical to this formula, but in for just two cases, which is you've either
you either are a cat, or you're not a cat, right? And so if you're not a cat, it's one minus you are a
cat. And same with the probability, you've got the probability you are a cat, and then not a cat
is one minus that. So here's this special case of binary cross entropy, and now our rows represent
rows of data. Okay, so each one of these is a different image, a different prediction. And so
for each one, I'm just predicting are you a cat? And this is the actual. And so the actual are you
not a cat is just one minus that. And so then these are the predictions that came out of the model.
And again, we can use softmax or it's it's binary equivalent. And so that will give you a prediction
that you're a cat. And the prediction that it's not a cat is one minus that. And so here is
each of the part yi times log of P yi. And here is what do I subtract? That was weird.
Oh, because I've got minus of both. So you'll see this way avoids parentheses.
Yeah, minus the are you not a cat times the log of the prediction of are you not a cat?
And then we can add those together. And so that would be the binary cross entropy loss of this
data set of five cat or not cat images.
Now, if you've got an equal i, you may have noticed that I am currently looking at the
documentation for something called an end cross entropy loss. But over here, I had something
called f dot cross entropy. Basically, it turns out that all of the loss functions in PyTorch have
two versions. There's a version which is a class. This is a class which you can instantiate passing
in various tweaks you might want. And there's also a version which is just a function.
And so if you don't need any of these tweaks, you can just use the function. The functions live in a
kind of remember the sub module called. I think it might be like torch dot end functional, but
everybody including the PyTorch official docs just calls a capital F. So that's what this capital
F refers to. So our loss, if we just care about disease, we're going to be past the three things,
we're just going to calculate cross entropy on our input versus disease. All right. So that's all
fine. We passed. So now when we create our vision learner, you can't rely on fast AI to know what
loss function to use because we've got multiple targets. So you have to say this is the loss
function I want to use. This is the metrics I want to use. And the other thing you can't rely on
is that fast AI no longer knows how many activations to create. Because again, there's more than
one target. So you have to say the number of outputs to create at the last layer is 10. So this
is just saying what's the size of the last matrix? And once we've done that, we can train it. And we
get, you know, basically the same kind of result as we always get because this model at this point
is identical to our previous conv next mall model. We've just done it in a slightly more roundabout
way. So finally, before our break, I'll show you how to expand this now into a multi target model.
And the trick is actually very simple. And you might have almost got the idea of it when I talked
about it earlier. Our vision learner now requires 20 outputs. We now need that last matrix
to have to produce 20 activations, not 10. 10 of those activations are going to predict the disease.
And 10 of the activations are going to predict the variety. So you might be then asking like,
well, how does the model know what it's meant to be predicting? And the answer is,
with the loss function, you're going to have to talent.
So for example, disease loss, remember, it's going to get the input, the disease, and the variety.
This is now going to have 20 columns in. So we're just going to decide, all right, we're just
going to decide the first 10 columns. We're going to decide the prediction of what the disease is,
which of the probability of each disease. So we can now pass to cross entropy,
the first 10 columns, and the disease target. So the way you read this, colon means every row.
And then colon 10 means every column up to the 10th. So these are the first 10 columns. And that
will, that's a loss function that just works on predicting disease using the first 10 columns.
For variety, we'll use cross entropy loss with a target of variety. And this time we'll use the
second 10 columns. So here's column 10 onwards. So then the overall loss function is the sum
of those two things, disease loss, plus variety loss.
And that's actually it. That's all the model needs to basically it's now going to, if you kind of
think through the manual neural nets we've created, this loss function will be reduced
when the first 10 columns are doing good job of predicting the disease probabilities,
and the second 10 columns are doing a good job of predicting the variety probabilities. And
therefore the gradients will point in an appropriate direction that the coefficients will get better
and better at using those columns for those purposes. It would be nice to see the error rate as well
for each of disease and variety. So we can call error rate passing in the first 10 columns and
disease, and then variety the second 10 columns and variety.
And we may as well also add to the metrics the losses. And so now when we create our learner,
we're going to pass in as the loss function, the combined loss.
And as the metrics, our list of all the metrics, and nout equals 20. And now look what happens when
we train. As well as telling us the overall train invalid loss, it also tells us the disease and
variety error and the disease and variety loss. And you can see our disease error is getting down
to similar levels it was before. It's slightly less good. But it's similar. It's not surprising
it's slightly less good, because we've only given it the same number of epochs. And we're now asking
it to try to do more stuff, which is to learn to recognize what the rice variety looks like.
And also learns to recognize what the disease looks like. Here's the counterintuitive thing,
though. If we train it for longer, it may well turn out that this model, which is trying to predict
two things, actually gets better at predicting disease than our disease specific model.
Why is that? Like that sounds weird, right? Because we're trying to have it to do more stuff.
That's the same size model. Or the reason is that quite often it'll turn out that the kinds of
features that help you recognize a variety of rice are also useful for recognizing the disease.
You know, maybe there are certain textures, right? Or maybe some diseases impact different
varieties in different ways. So it'd be really helpful to know what variety it looks like.
So it'd be really helpful to know what variety it was. So I haven't tried training this for a
long time, and I don't know the answer is in this particular case, does a multi target model do
better than a single target model at predicting disease? But I just want to let you know, sometimes
it does. So for example, a few years ago, there was a Kaggle competition for recognizing the
kinds of fish on a boat. And I remember we ended up doing a multi target model where we tried to
predict a second thing. I can't even remember what it was. Maybe it was a type of boat or something.
And it definitely turned out in that Kaggle competition that predicting two things helped
you predict the type of fish better than predicting just the type of fish.
So there's at least, you know, there's two reasons to learn about multi target models.
One is that sometimes you just want to be able to predict more than one thing.
So this is useful. And the second is that sometimes this will actually be better at
predicting just one thing than a just one thing model. And of course, the third reason is it really
forced us to dig quite deeply into these loss functions and activations in a way we haven't
quite done before. So it's okay. It's absolutely okay if this is confusing.
The way to make it not confusing is well, the first thing I do is like go back to our earlier
models where we did stuff by hand on like the Titanic data set and built our own architectures.
And maybe you could try to build a model that predicts two things in the Titanic data set.
Maybe you could try to predict both sex and survival or something like that or class and
survival. Because that's kind of forced you to look at it on very small data sets. And then the
other thing I'd say is run this notebook and really experiment at trying to see what kind of
outputs you get. Like actually look at the imports and look at the outputs and look at the data
loaders and so forth. Alright, let's have a six minute break. So I see you back here at 10 past seven.
Okay, welcome back. Oh, before I continue, I very rudely forgot to mention this very nice
equation image here is from an article by Chris said called things that confused me about cross
entropy. It's a very good article. So I recommend you check it out if you want to go a bit deeper
there. There's a link to it inside the spreadsheet.
So the next notebook we're going to be looking at is this one called collaborative filtering deep
dive. And this is going to cover our last of the four major application areas. Collaborative filtering.
And this is actually the first time I'm going to be presenting a chapter of the book largely
without variation. Because this is one where I looked back at the chapter and I was like,
Oh, I can't think of any way to improve this. So I thought I'll just leave what it is.
But we have put the whole chapter up on Kaggle. So that's where we're going to be showing it to you.
And so we're going to be looking at a data set called the movie lens.
Data set, which is a data set of movie ratings.
And we're going to grab a smaller version of it, 100,000 record version of it.
And it comes as a CSV file, which we can read in. But it's not really a CSV file. It's a
TSP file. This here means a tab in Python. These are the names of the columns.
So here's what it looks like. It's got a user, a movie, a rating and a timestamp. We're not going
to use the timestamp at all. So basically three columns we care about. This is a user ID. So maybe
196 is Jeremy and maybe 186 is Rachel. And 22 is John, I don't know. Maybe this movie is
Return of the Jedi and this one's Casablanca. This one's LA confidential. And then this rating
says how did Jeremy feel about Return of the Jedi? He gave it a three out of five. That's how we
can read this data set. This kind of data is very common. Anytime you've got a user and a product
or a service and you might not even have ratings. Maybe just the fact that they bought that product.
You can have a similar table with zeros and ones. So for example, Radak who's in the audience here
is now at NVIDIA doing like basically does this, right? Recommendation systems. So
Recommendation systems, it's a huge industry. And so what we're learning today is a really key
foundation of it. So these are the first two rows. This is not a particularly great way to see it.
I prefer to cross tabulate it like that, like this. This is the same information.
So for each movie, for each user, here's the rating. So user 212 never watched movie 49.
Now, if you're wondering why there's so few empty cells here, I actually
grabbed the most watched movies and the most movie watching users for this particular
sample matrix. So that's why it's particularly full. So yeah, so this is what kind of a
collaborative filtering data set looks like when we cross tabulate it. So how do we fill in this gap?
So maybe user 212 is Nick and movie 49. What's the movie you haven't seen Nick and you'd quite
like to maybe not sure about it? The new Elvis movie, Baz Luerman, good choice Australian director,
filmed in Queensland. Yeah. Okay, so that's movie number 49. So is Nick going to like the new Elvis
movie? Well, to figure this out, what we could do, ideally would like to know, for each movie,
what kind of movie is it? Like what are the kind of features of it? Is it like actiony,
science fictiony, dialogue driven, critical acclaimed, you know? So let's say, for example,
we were trying to look at the last Skywalker. Maybe that was the movie the next one during
about watching. And so if we like had three categories being science fiction, action or kind of classic
old movies would say the last Skywalker is very science fiction. Let's see, this is from like
negative one to one. Pretty action, definitely not an old classic, or at least not yet.
And so then maybe we then could say like, okay, well, maybe like Nick's tastes in movies are that he
really likes science fiction, quite likes action movies and doesn't really like old classics.
Right? So then we could kind of like match these up to see how much we think this user might like
this movie. To calculate the match, we could just multiply the corresponding values, user one times
last Skywalker and add them up, 0.9 times 0.98 plus 0.8 times 0.9 plus negative 0.6 times negative 0.9,
that's going to give us a pretty high number, right? With a maximum of three. So that would suggest
Nick probably would like the last Skywalker. On the other hand, the movie Casablanca, we would say
definitely not very science fiction, not really very action, definitely very old classic. So then
we'd do exactly the same calculation and get this negative result here. So you probably wouldn't like
Casablanca. This thing here, when we multiply the corresponding parts of a vector together and add
them up is called a dot product in math. So this is the dot product of the user's preferences and
the type of movie. Now, the problem is we weren't given that information. We know nothing about
these users or about the movies. So what are we going to do? We want to try to create these factors
without knowing ahead of time what they are. We wouldn't even know what factors to create. What
are the things it really matters when it just people decide what movies they want to watch?
What we can do is we can create things called latent factors. Latent factors is this weird idea
that we can say, I don't know what things about movies matter to people, but there's probably something
and let's just try like using SGD to find them. And we can do it in everybody's
favorite mathematical optimization software, Microsoft Excel.
So here is that table. And what we can do, let's head over here actually, here's that table.
So what we could do is we could say for each of those movies,
so let's say for movie 27, let's assume there are five latent factors. I don't know what they're
for. They're just five latent factors. We'll figure them out later. And for now, I certainly
don't know what the value of those five latent factors for movie 27. So we're going to just
chuck a little random numbers in them. And we're going to do the same thing for movie 49,
pick another five random numbers. And the same thing for movie 57, pick another five numbers.
And you might not be surprised to hear, we're going to do the same thing for each user.
So if we use a 14, we're going to pick five random numbers for them. And for user 29,
we'll pick five random numbers for them. And so the idea is that this number here,
point one nine, is saying if it was true that user ID 14
feels not very strongly about the fact that for movie 27 has a value of 0.71.
So therefore in here, we do the dot product.
The details of why I don't matter too much, but well, actually you can figure this out from
what we've said so far. If you go back to our definition of matrix product, you might notice that
the matrix product of a row with a column is the same thing as a dot product.
And so here in Excel, I have a row and a column. So therefore I say matrix,
multiply that by that. That gives us the dot product. So here's the dot product of that
by that or the matrix, multiply, given that they're row and column.
The only other slight quirk here is that if the actual rating is zero, is empty, I'm just going
to leave it blank. I'm going to set it to zero actually. So here is everybody's rating,
predicted rating of movies. I say predicted, of course these are currently random numbers,
so they are terrible predictions. But when we have some way to predict things,
and we start with terrible random predictions, we know how to make them better, don't we?
We used to cast a gradient descent. Now to do that, we're going to need a loss function.
So that's easy enough. We can just calculate the sum of x minus y squared divided by the count.
That is the main squared error. And if we take the square root, that is the root main squared
error. So here is the root main squared error in Excel between these predictions and these actuals.
And so now that we have a loss function, we can optimize it, data,
solver, set objective, this one here, by changing cells, these ones here, and these ones here,
solve. Okay, and initially our loss is 2.81. So we hope it's going to go down.
And as it solves, not a great choice of background color, but it says 0.68. So this number is going
down. So this is using, actually in Excel, it's not quite using stochastic gradient descent,
because Excel doesn't know how to calculate gradients. There are actually optimization
techniques that don't need gradients. They calculate them numerically as they go, but that's a minor
quick. One thing you'll notice is it's doing it very, very slowly. There's not much data here,
it's still going. One reason for that is that if it's because it's not using gradients,
it's much slower, and the second is Excel is much slower than PyTorch. Anyway, it's come up with an
answer. And look at that. It's got to 0.42. So it's got a pretty good prediction. And so
we can kind of get a sense of this. For example, looking at the last three,
movie user 14 likes dislikes, likes. Let's see somebody else like that. Here's somebody else.
This person likes dislikes, likes. So based on our kind of approach, we're saying, okay,
since they have the same feeling about these three movies, maybe they'll feel the same about
these three movies. So this person likes all three of those movies, and this person likes two out of
three of them. So you know, you kind of, this is the idea, right? As if somebody says to you,
I like this movie, this movie, this movie. And you're like, oh, they like those movies too.
What other movies do you like? And they'll say, oh, how about this? There's a chance, good chance
that you're going to like the same thing. That's the basis of collaborative filtering. Okay. It's
and and mathematically, we call this matrix completion. So this matrix is missing values. We just want
to complete them. So the core of collaborative filtering is it's a matrix completion exercise.
How can you grab a microphone?
Oh, is that that? My question was, is with the dot products, right? So if we think about the
math of that for a minute, is, yeah, if we think about the coastline of the angle between the
two vectors, that's going to roughly approximate the correlation. Is that essentially what's going
on here in one sense with the way that we're. Okay. So is the cosine of the angle between the
vectors much the same thing as the dot product? The answer is yes. They're the same once you
normalize them. So, yeah. Is that still on?
It's correlation. What we're doing here at scale as well. Yeah, you can fit. Yeah, you can think
of it that way. Okay. Cool. So now.
This looks pretty different to how PyTorch looks. PyTorch has things in rows, right? We've got a
user, a movie rating, user movie rating, right? So how do we do the same kind of thing in PyTorch?
So let's do the same kind of thing in Excel, but using the table in the same format that PyTorch
has it. Okay. So to do that next cell, the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to see, okay,
this I've got to look at user number 14. And I want to know what index, like how far down this
list is 14. Okay. So we'll just match means find the index. So this is user index one.
And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to say the,
these five numbers is basically I want to find row one over here. And in Excel, that's called offset.
So we're going to offset from here by one row. And so you can see here it is 0.19, 0.63, 0.19,
0.69, 0.60, et cetera. Right. So here's the second user, 0.25, 0.03, et cetera. And we can do
the same thing for movies. Right. So movie four, one, seven is index 14. That's going to be 0.75,
0.47, et cetera. And so same thing, right. But now we're going to offset from here by 14.
To get this row, which is 0.75, 0.47, et cetera. And so the prediction now is the dot product is
called some product in Excel. This is some product of those two things. So this is exactly the same
as we had before. Right. But when we kind of put everything next to each other, we have to like
manually look up the index. And so then for each one, we can calculate the error squared,
prediction minus rating squared. And then we could add those all up. And if you remember,
this is actually the same root mean squared error we had before we optimized before,
2.81, because we've got the same numbers as before. And so this is mathematically identical.
So what's this weird word up here? Embedding. You've probably heard it before, and you might have
come across the impression at some very complex fancy mathematical thing. But actually, it turns
out that it is just looking something up at an array. That is what an embedding is. So
we call this an embedding matrix. And these are our user embeddings and our movie embeddings.
So let's take a look at that in PyTorch. And you know, at this point, if you've heard about
embeddings before, you might be thinking that can't be it. And yeah, it's just as complex as the
rectified linear unit, which turned out to be replaced negatives with zeros. Embedding actually
means look something up in an array. So there's a lot of things that we use as deep learning
practitioners to try to make you as intimidated as possible so that you don't wander into our
territory and start winning our Kaggle competitions. And unfortunately, once you discover the simplicity
of it, you might start to think that you can do it yourself. And then it turns out you can.
So yeah, that's what basically it turns out pretty much all of this jargon turns out to be.
So we're going to try to learn these latent factors, which is exactly what we just did in Excel. We
just learned the latent factors. All right, so if we're going to learn things in PyTorch,
we're going to need data loaders. One thing I did is there is actually a movies table as well
with the names of the movies. So I merged that together with the ratings so that then we've now
got the user ID and the actual name of the movie. We don't need that obviously for the model,
but it's just going to make it a bit more fun to interpret later. So this is called
ratings. We have something called collaborative data loaders. So collaborative filtering data
loaders, and we can get that from a data frame by passing in the data frame. And it expects a
user column and an item column. So the user column is what it sounds like, the person that is rating
this thing. And the item column is the product or service that they're rating. In our case,
the user columns called user, so we don't have to pass that in. And the item column is called
title. So we do have to pass this in because by default, the user column should be called user,
and the item column will be called item. Give it a batch size. And as usual, we can call show batch.
And so here's our data loaders, a batch of data loaders, or at least a bit of it.
And so now that we're since we're told the names, we actually get to see the names, which is nice.
All right. So now we're going to create the user factors and movie factors,
I.E. This one and this one. So the number of rows of the movie factors will be equal to the
number of movies, and the number of rows of the user factors will be equal to the number of users.
And the number of columns will be whatever we want. However, many factors we want to create.
John. This might be a pertinent time to jump in with a question. Any comments about
choosing the number of factors?
Well, we've got a lot of them.
We have defaults that we use for embeddings in Fast.DI.
It's a very obscure formula, and people often ask me for the mathematical derivation of where
it came from. But what actually happened is I wrote down how many factors I think is appropriate
for different size categories on a piece of paper at a table, or actually an Excel.
And then I fitted a function to that, and that's the function. So it's basically a mathematical
function that fits my intuition about what works well. But it seems to work pretty well.
I said it used in lots of other places now. Lots of papers will be like using Fast.DI's
rule of thumb for embedding sizes is the formula.
Cool. Thank you. It's pretty fast to train these things so you can try a few.
So the number of users is just the length of how many users there are.
The number of movies is the length of how many titles there are. So we create a matrix of random
numbers of users by five, and movies of movies by five. And now we need to look up the index of
the movie in our movie, Late in Factor Matrix. The thing is, when we've learned about deep learning,
we learned that we do matrix modifications, not look something up in a matrix in an array. So in Excel,
we were saying offset, which is to say find element number 14 in the table, which that's not
a matrix multiply. How does that work? Well, actually it is. It actually is for the same reason
that we talked about here, which is we can represent, find the element number one thing
in this list is actually the same as multiplying by a one hot encoded matrix. So remember how
if we just take off the log for a moment.
Look, this is returned 0.87.
And particularly if I take the negative off here, if I add this up, this is 0.87, which is the result
of finding the index number one thing in this list. But we didn't do it that way. We did this by
taking the dot product of this, sorry, of this, and this. But that's actually the same thing.
Taking the dot product of a one hot encoded vector with something is the same as looking up this index
in the vector. So that means that this exercise here of looking up the 14 thing is the same
as doing a matrix model play with a one hot encoded vector. And we can see that here. This is how we
create a one hot encoded vector of length and users in which the third element is set to one
and everything else is zero. And if we multiply that, so at means to remember matrix multiply in
Python. So if we multiply that by our user factors, we get back this answer. And if we just ask for
user factors number three, we get back the exact same answer. They're the same thing.
So you can think of an embedding as being a computational shortcut for multiplying something
by a one hot encoded vector. And so if you think back to what we did with this, we can see that
back to what we did with dummy variables. This basically means embeddings are like a cool
math trick for speeding up doing matrix model pliers with dummy variables. Not a speeding up,
we never even have to create the dummy variables. We never have to create the one hot encoded vectors.
We can just look up in an array. All right. So we're now ready to build a collaborative
mil, a collaborative filtering model. And we're going to create one from scratch.
And as we've discussed before, in PyTorch, a model is a class. And so we briefly touched on this,
but I'm going to touch on it again. This is how we create a class in Python. You give it a name.
And then you say how to initialize it, how to construct it. So in Python, remember, they call
these things dunder whatever. This is dunder edit. These are magic methods that Python will call for
you at certain times. The method called dunder edit is called when you create an object of this
class. So we could pass it a value. And so now we set the attribute called a equal to that value.
And so then later on, we could call a method called say that will say hello to whatever you
passed in here. And this is what it will say. So for example, if you construct an object type
example, passing in silver, self dot a now equal silver. So if you say use the dot method, the dot
say method, nice to meet you, acts is now nice to meet you. So it will say hello, silver, nice to
meet you. So that's, that's kind of all you need to know about object oriented programming in
PyTorch to create a model. Oh, there is one more thing we need to know, sorry, which is
you can put something in parentheses after your class name. And that's called the superclass.
It's basically get a give you some stuff for free, give you some functionality for free.
And if you create a model in PyTorch, you have to make module your superclass. This is actually
fast AI's version of module, but it's nearly the same as PyTorch's. So when we create this dot
product object, it's going to call done to init. And we have to say, well, how many users are going
to be in our model? And how many movies and how many factors? And so we can now create an embedding
of users by factors for users and an embedding of movies by factors for movies. And so then
PyTorch does something quite magic, which is that if you create a dot product object like so,
it then you can treat it like a function. You can call it and calculate values on it. And when you
do that, it's really important to know PyTorch is going to call a method called forward in your
class. So this is where you put your calculation of your model. It has to be called forward. And
it's going to be past the object itself and the thing you're calculating on. In this case,
the user and movie for a batch. So this is your batch of data. Each row will be one user and movie
combination, and the columns will be users and movies. So we can grab the first column,
so this is every row of the first column, and look it up. And the user factors embedding to get
our users embeddings. So that is the same as doing this. Let's say this is one mini batch.
And then we do exactly the same thing for the second column,
passing it into our movie factors to look up the movie embeddings. And then take the dot product.
DIM equals one because we're summing across the columns for each row. We're calculating a
prediction for each row. So once we've got that, we can pass it to a learner,
passing in our data loaders and our model, and our loss function means squared error.
And we can call fit. And away it goes. And this, by the way, is running on CPU.
Now, these are very fast to run. So this is doing 100,000 rows in 10 seconds, which is a whole lot
faster than our few dozen rows in Excel. And so you can see the loss going down. And so we've
trained a model. It's not going to be a great model. And one of the problems is that,
let's see if we can see this in our Excel one. Look at this one here. This prediction is bigger than
five. But nothing's bigger than five. So that seems like a problem. We're predicting things
that are bigger than the highest possible number. And in fact, these are very much movie enthusiasts.
Nobody gave anything a one. Yeah, nobody even gave anything a one here. So
do you remember when we learned about sigmoid, the idea of squishing things between zero and one?
We could do stuff still without a sigmoid, but when we added a sigmoid, it trained better,
because the model didn't have to work so hard to get it kind of into the right zone.
Now, if you think about it, if you take something and put it through a sigmoid,
and then multiply it by five, now you've got something that's going to be between zero and five.
Used to have something which is between zero and one. So we could do that. In fact, we could do that
in Excel. I'll leave that as an exercise to the reader. Let's do it over here in PyTorch.
So if we take the exact same classes before, and this time we call sigmoid range. And so
sigmoid range is something which will take our prediction and then squash it into our range.
And by default, we'll use a range of zero through to 5.5. So it can't be smaller than zero,
it can't be bigger than 5.5. Why didn't I use five? That's because a sigmoid can never hit one.
And a sigmoid times five can never hit five. But some people do give things movies of five.
So you want to make it a bit bigger than our highest. So this one got a loss of 0.8628.
8.6. Oh, it's not better. Isn't that always the way? All right. Didn't actually help,
doesn't always. So be it. Let's keep trying to improve it. Let me show you something I noticed.
Some of the users like this one, this person here just loved movies. They give nearly everything a
four or five. Their worst score is a three. Okay. This person, oh, here's a one. This person's got
much more range. Some things are twos, some ones, some fives. This person doesn't seem to like movies
very much considering how many they watch. Nothing gets a five. They've got discerning tastes, I guess.
At the moment, we don't have any way in our kind of formulation of this model to say,
this user tends to give low scores and this user tends to give high scores. This is nothing like
that. But that would be very easy to add. Let's add one more number to our five factors
just here for each user. And now rather than doing just the matrix multiply, let's add.
Oh, it's actually the top one. Let's add this number to it, H 19. And so for this one, let's add
I 19 to it. Yeah, so I've got it wrong. This one here, so this row here, we're going to add
to each rating. And then we're going to do the same thing here.
H movies now got an extra number here. So again, we're going to add a 26. So it's our matrix
modification plus we call it the bias, the user bias plus the movie bias. So effectively, that's
like making it so we don't have an intercept of zero anymore. And so if we now train this model,
data, solve up, solve. So previously, we got to 0.42. Okay. And so we're going to let that go
along for a while. And then let's also go back and look at the PyTorch version.
So for PyTorch now, we're going to have a user bias, which is an embedding of add users by one.
Right? Remember, there was just one number for each user. And movie bias is an embedding of
add movies also by one. And so we can now look up the user embedding, the movie embedding,
do the dot product, and then look up the user bias and the movie bias and add them.
Check that through the sigmoid. Let's train that. So if we beat 0.865.
Wow, we're not training very well, are we? Still not too great. 0.894. I think Excel
normally does do better though. Let's see. Okay, Excel. Oh, Excel's done a lot better. It's
gone from 0.42 to 0.35. Okay. So what happened here? Why did it get worse? Well, look at this.
The valid loss got better. And then it started getting worse again.
So we think we might be overfitting, which, you know, we have got a lot of parameters
in our embeddings. So how do we avoid overfitting? So a classic way to avoid overfitting is to use
something called weight decay, also known as L2 regularization, which sounds much more fancy.
What we're going to do is when we compute the gradients,
we're going to first add to our loss function the sum of the weights squared.
This is something you should go back and add to your Titanic model, not that it's overfitting,
but just to try it. So previously, our gradients have just been, and our loss function, has just
been about the difference between our predictions and our actuals. And so our gradients were based
on the derivative of that with respect to the coefficients. But we're saying now, let's add
the sum of the square of the weights times sum small number. So what would make that loss function
go down? That loss function would go down if we reduce our weights. For example, if we reduce
all of our weights to zero, I should say we reduce the magnitude of our weights. If we reduce
the model to zero, that part of the loss function will be zero, because the sum of zero squared is zero.
Now, the problem is if our weights are all zero, our model doesn't do anything,
so we'd have crappy predictions. So we want to increase the weights, so that's actually
predicting something useful. But if it increases the weights too much, then it starts overfitting.
So how is it going to actually get the lowest possible value of the loss function? By finding the
right mix, the weight's not too high, but high enough to be useful at predicting. If there's some
parameter that's not useful, for example, say we asked for five factors and we only need four,
it can just set the weights for the fifth factor to zero. And then problem solved.
It won't be used to predict anything, but it also won't contribute to our weight decay part.
So previously, we had something calculated in the loss function. So now we're going to do exactly
the same thing, but we're going to square the parameters, we're going to sum them up,
and we're going to multiply them by some small number, like 0.01 or 0.001.
And in fact, we don't even need to do this, because remember, the whole purpose of the loss is to
take its gradient, and to print it out, the gradient of parameters squared is two times
parameters. It's okay if you don't remember that from high school, but you can take my word for
it. The gradient of y equals x squared is 2x. So actually, all we need to do is take our gradient
and add the weight decay coefficient 0.01 or whatever times two times parameters. And given this
is just some number we get to pick, we might as well fold the two into it and just get rid of it.
So when you call fit, you can pass in a wd parameter, which does adds this times the parameters
to the gradient for you. And so that's going to ask the model, to say to the model, please don't
make the weights any bigger than they have to be. And finally, our loss actually improved.
Okay, you can see it getting better and better.
In fast AI applications like vision, we try to set this for you appropriately, and we generally
do a reasonably good job, just the defaults are normally fine. But in things like table or
collaborative filtering, we don't really know enough about your data to know what to use here.
So you should just try a few things. Let's try a few models of 10, start at 0.1, and then divide
by 10 a few times, you know, and just see which one gives you the best result.
So this is called regularization. So regularization is about making your model
no more complex than it has to be, right? But it has a lower capacity. And so the higher the weights,
the more they're moving the model around, right? So we want to keep the weights down,
but not so far down that they don't make good predictions. And so the value of this, if it's higher,
we'll keep the weights down more. It will reduce overfitting, but it will also reduce the capacity
of your model to make good predictions. And if it's lower, it increases the capacity of model
and increases overfitting.
All right, I'm going to take this bit for next time. Before we wrap up, John, are there any more questions?
Yeah, there are some from back at the start of the collaborative filtering. So we had a bit
of a conversation a while back about the size of the embedding vectors. And you talked about your
fast AI rule of thumb. So there was a question if anyone has ever done a kind of a hyperparameter
search, an exploration for people often will do a hyperparameter search, for sure.
People will often do a hyperparameter search for their model, but I haven't seen any other rules
other than my rule of thumb. Right, so not productively to your knowledge. Oh, productively for an
individual model that somebody's built. Right. And then there's a question here from Zaki,
which I didn't quite wrap my head around. So Zaki, if you want to maybe clarify in the chat as well,
but can recommendation systems be built based on average ratings of users experience rather than
collaborative filtering? Not really, right? I mean, if you've got lots of metadata, you could,
right? So if you've got lots of information about demographic data, about where the user's from,
you know, what loyalty scheme results they've had and blah, blah, blah, and then for products,
there's metadata about that as well, then sure, averages would be fine. But if all you've got is
kind of purchasing history, then you really want the granular data. Otherwise, how could you say,
they like this movie, this movie, and this movie, therefore they might also like that movie,
or you've got it's like, oh, they kind of like movies. There's just not enough information there.
Yep. Great. That's about it. Thanks.
Okay, great. All right. Thanks everybody. See you next time for our last lesson.